so the next segment is going to be about
the different parts of speech that
existed language so let's look at the
first example here we have a sentence
like Nathalie likes black cats we can
replace the word black with Persian
tabby or small and still have sentences
it makes sense Nathalie likes tabby cats
or Nathalie likes Persian cats well it's
a single word and they can be used in
the same position those are usually
refer to the same syntactic category in
this case the syntactic category the
part of speech is because it's a single
word is an adjective
there many other syntactic categories in
English and other languages so those
include open and close categories open
categories include the categories that
can have new words added to them over
time so for example a no-fly zone is a
noun and twork is a verb and those words
were added to the vocabulary of English
in the relative recent past we also have
close functional categories such as the
in which are respectively
determiners or articles and prepositions
let's look at an example sentence the
dog chased the yellow bird we have
multiple parts of speech here article
noun verb article adjective and noun so
in English they're about eight general
types of parts of speech we looked at
some of them already nouns and verbs and
adjectives so what do those have in
common so the nouns include things like
dog tree computer and idea they can be
either concrete like the first three or
abstract they can vary in number
singular and plural in gender and in
case not in English but in other
languages for example in Latin the same
word pwhere which means boy can be
spelled in many different ways in the
singular one boy can be prayer in which
is the so called nominative case or
subject case playroom which is the
accusative or object and 20 which is the
genitive of the boy in the poor we can
have query which is
nominative again subject form we can
have playoffs which is the accusative
and finally we're wrong which is the
genitive of the boys now the gender
doesn't need to match the actual sex of
the object being described so a typical
example that people give is the word in
German machen the word machen means girl
and because it's a diminutive the Shen a
part indicates that it's small person
the word is a neuter in gender in German
even though it refers to a female person
now let's look at one of the most famous
examples in courses of this nature it's
a short poem extracted from Lewis
Carroll's Alice in Wonderland and more
specifically the second part of the book
you may have seen this before but if you
haven't seen it you will realize that
this is in gibberish most of the words
are not valid English words and yet it
is possible or for a speaker of English
to understand at least the parts of
speech of those words even though in
some cases this can be tricky so let's
try to do this together I'm going to
give you a minute now to figure out the
parts of speech of the words in boldface
so let's look at the answer to the
previous question what are the parts of
speech of the words in boldface the
first word is wave and borogoves so
those are most likely nouns and how do
we know this well they both follow the
word in English typically after the word
there you have a now next one is a
little trickier brillig what kind of
part of speech is this well for your
first guess is that this is an adjective
but it could also be a noun
let's look at the examples it could be
something like an adjective like it was
early or it can be a noun as in it was
noon so in either case we don't know
exactly the part of speech but we know
it's one of those - what about mimsy
why limousine is most likely an
adjective because of the way it appears
in the sand us now what about
the slithy Toves well this is either an
adjective and noun combination the same
as small people or it can also be a noun
and verb combination similar to the Bell
Tolls finally we have the expression
mome Raths outgrabe so this could be a
combination of adjectives noun and verb
but it can also be a combination of noun
verb an adverb as in birds fly outside
so the point here is that in some cases
you can guess the part of speech of an
unknown word based on the context but in
other cases this can be very tricky in
the reason why this is an important
example is that it mimics what computers
do with human language they see texts
that they really don't understand this
is 6 for the sequence of words and if
they don't have enough prior knowledge
about that language or about the words
themselves they wouldn't be able to
understand anything so in that case what
they do is they either use prior
knowledge or their reason for more
ballistically so they may be a row in
the system that says after the the next
word is the noun with the probability of
99% and after an adjective the next word
is a noun with the probability of 80%
and so on and then when you combine all
the probabilities of the sentences that
you observe you can come up with the
best estimate that is consistent with
who's that you know and the text that
you have seen it is also important to
use context so if for example you have a
word that is ambiguous maybe in the
context you can see other related words
that help you disambiguate it so for
example if you use the word bar in a
sentence and the whole text talks about
legal issues and lawyers and people
finishing law school it's more likely
that this use of the word bar is in the
legal sense rather than the
establishment restaurant type of sense
and also computers can be wrong so they
can make a mistake and this can
propagate in the whole system for
example they can
nor a negation and then assume that the
opposite of what was said is actually
true the next category of parts of
speech is poor nouns in English they
include things like she our sales and
mine pronounced very in person for a
second and third gender masculine and
feminine number and case English
actually has cases from photos and that
includes nominative accusative
possessive and second possessive so more
specifically that could be I me my and
mine and pronouns can also have a
reflexive and anaphoric forms so for
example if I say Samantha gave her her
haircut her must refer to a different
person whereas if I say Samantha gave
herself a haircut then she gave the
haircut to Samantha so this is a
reflexive for now the other categories
of parts of speech in English include
determiners and adjectives determiners
are things like articles and
demonstratives things like the this that
and adjectives includes words that
describe properties they can be used
either attribute of lis of addictively
so small house is attributive and the
house is small and that second example
small is used predicatively
adjectives agree in gender and number in
different languages and they can have a
positive form such as short and also
comparative and superlative forms such
as shorter and shortest and those
comparative and superlative forms can be
either derivative or periphrastic
derivative is when you have form like
small smaller smallest or periphrastic
is difficult more difficult most
difficult the next category of parts of
speech is verbs that are includes words
that describe actions such as throw
activities such as walk and states such
as have therefore verb forms in English
other languages can have many more than
that the tenses are present past and
future and different variants of those
other inflection that exists in English
includes number in person and worse can
also includes a gerund such as ing forms
and infinitives that's the form of the
verb that follows the word to verbs can
also be distinguished by the aspect they
can be the progressive or perfective
depending on whether the action is to
continuing or not and finally they can
be distinguished based on their voice so
in the sentence I bought a house the
verb bought is in the active voice
whereas in a house was bought the word
bought is in the passive tense a passive
voice sorry the some other things about
verbs is that they can include things
like participles CD forms for example
and auxiliaries like may and will and
shower verse can have different
arguments those are the words that come
after the verb and indicate some
modifications to the verb for example
the dog sleeps is an instance of an
intransitive verb there is no direct
object that's what intransitive means
the dog chased the cat in that example
the word chased is a transitive verb
because it has a direct object and
finally in the sentence Mary gave the
dog the dog a bone we have an example of
a die transitive verb that's a verb that
takes two objects gave somebody
something and you can also have things
like your regular verbs so slapped and
caught now what I said so far applies
mostly to English other languages have
much richer inflections the examples
that you may be familiar with include
languages like French and Latin which
have more than a hundred different forms
of a certain verb and languages like
Finnish which have many different forms
sometimes more than 20 of the same now
so here's an example of a much more
sophisticated inflectional paradigm for
verbs this is an example from French
on this slide alone there are 36
different forms of the verb to go and I
can promise you that there are at least
two more slides that I can show you
which have even more forms of the verb
depending on where it's in present and
past and continuous form or when it's in
a different moods are just conditional
and subjunctive and now just to conclude
the list of parts of speech the other
parts of speech in English include
adverbs things like happily which
describes a manner here which describes
a location and never which describes a
time prepositions particles so particles
can sometimes be confused with
prepositions but there's a very
important test that can tell them apart
particles are usually used in the form
of the so called phrasal verbs so
phrasal verb could be something like
take off take off is not a some special
way of taking it's a completely
different verb or I wanted to take up
this matter with the principle so again
take up is a phrasal verb and in the two
cases that I just showed you off with
two F's and up our particles that are
part of those phase of verbs and there's
the test that I mentioned can be used to
distinguish between prepositions and
particles a common example that people
uses she ran up a bill versus she ran up
a hill in the first example she ran up a
bill ran up is a phrasal verb whereas in
the second example she ran up a hill up
a hill is a prepositional phrase and up
is not associated with the ran and the
way to tell the two apart is very simple
can we move up and the rest of the
sentence to the beginning so we can say
she ran up a hill up a hill she ran so
that sounds like a valid paraphrase
therefore we have an instance of a
preposition but we can all do the same
thing with she ran up a bill we cannot
say up a bill
she ran which means that in this example
around and up are parts of the same word
parts are the same verb router and
cannot be split up in that case up is a
particle
the other Kannada parts of speech that
we haven't talked about include
coordinating conjunctions such as an or
an but which I used to connect similar
parts of the sentence for example apples
and oranges subordinating conjunctions
which are used to connect different
portions of the sentence that are not
equal for example I can have an entire
sentence be inserted by preceding it
with the word that so I can say I will
not go home unless you give me money so
in that example unless introduces an
entire relative clause you give me money
but I cannot switch the order of the two
parts of the sentence and obtain the
same meaning and finally we have
interjections those are things like
sounds like meow or arch and to conclude
this section I would like to show you
the labels that I used in part of speech
tagging in natural language processing
so part of speech tagging is the process
of automatically assigning parts of
speech to words and most of the existing
part of speech staggers and natural
language parsers use this convention so
NN is a shorthand for a singular noun
and P is a shorthand for proper noun and
an S is for plural noun and so on the
first letter in each code tells you the
part of speech so whether it's n or J or
an or C or R or v and the second and
third letters if any tell you something
a little bit more detailed about that
word for example VB is an uninflected
verb v BN is the en or a passive
perfective form of the verb such as
taken or looked used as a parse
participle and v BD stands for a verb
used in its past tense such as took or
looked as I looked out vs. and the
previous sentence where looked was used
in a passive voice so this concludes the
section on para speech
tagging and the next section is going to
be on morphology and a lexical